Once I made a working POC, proof of concept, a prototype, I started exploring, what can I do with it.
Soon I realised that I can evolve the ask-project self with ask.
The ask-project is not an exported js-script, or generated documentation, or anything else specifically.
It's an open-source repo, which anyone may `ask` to contribute to, may be accepted, may be not.
And it project evolves.
We write texts, add images, apis, integrations.
We connect everything via fundamentals (read, write, fetch, append, etc).
You will learn these fundamentals in schools, and then teach your kids.
These fundamentals with ask runners turns into a super powerful tool for managing data flows, operating concepts, and who knows for what else.

So, I started using ask to improve ask.
For example, I wrote an idea of a fundamental function `log`.
It should have caller_id somehow, so it will display it on the screen:
`<caller_id>  2025-03-22 19:06:45`. Payload comes as a second line.

If payload is a result of ask, then i want to save it to the cache
cache/task/<caller_id>

If payload is a result of ask, then i want to save it to the cache
cache/task/<caller_id>

I will ask ai to make a file `log.<routine id, who made this file>

I already described the whole idea in this file "docs/drafts/How I made this project.md".
Of course I want a working result as soon as possible, skipping all the following phases, which I usually have to do
I 
- read and understand the whole the concept description
- having knowledge about concept, I then need to 

So here is when time becomes nonlinear, you know what I mean?
Now you realised, that working with this project will create a better version of this project.
Actually, it's already building, even though you not even finished describing how to do it, you did not even finish realising what are you going to do.

So I just put my ideas into this file, and then watcher is triggered, he sees that there is a file changed (this file), so he pings the app render endpoint. it may answer like 'ok got it, i will run rebuild', and my side will just log this answer, okay.
So logs becomes more human readable, which is also now fine for machines.

So I change some texts here and there, and a watcher routine runs, and rebuilds the project.
Building is running a list of defined in config starting routines.
This is more conceptual.

So you see, in this file is all mixes, like a flow of thoughts.
I just build knowledge myself.
It's not code, not documentation, not presentation, we go few layers of abstraction lower to the raw meaning, knowledge.

So we gain the knowledge in the project folder, in my case its ~/dev/ask/ask-public.

Then I catch an idea and want to try it right now.
I want to build a documentation for this language.
And then render it as a minimalistic web page.
Oh wait, just grab styles from github? Yes.
And then render as a single html file, and write it in the right place: public/docs.<md5 hash>.html
So I start from writing a basic.ask.
It's like basic for old cmpiters, remember?
basic.ask may be like this

text = read(docs/drafts/How to use it.md) // read this exact file
task = `
  # Task
  Your role is to understand long unstructured text and extract the detailed task definition from it.
  
  ${text}
`
write(docs/drafts/How to use it.md.reply)

Oh, it seems like we just wrote basic?
Let's try to transpile it, using old manually crafted with ai transpiler. I should cache it somewhere.

I also already have some concept of transpiling describing in docs/drafts/Ask language.md.

Then using ask, I will understand what I need to do to satisty the task, using current ask instance abilities.
Read the file, understand what to do now, what to do next, and write the result to the .ask file.
Repeat X times (forever).

So now I need to make not a transpiler, but generator for ask.

Routines should be reusable, like:

// docs/drafts/html.ask
html = `
  Render the provided payload as html

  # Payload
  ${payload}
`

// public/index.ask
docs/draft/welcome_content.ask > docs/draft/html.ask > public/index.<md5>.html

this is another example of syntax
same thing
`
  # 
  From the provided payload generate content for welcome page about Ask framework

  # Payload
`

at some point executor may decide that the task is too complex,

it also may run evaluator in parallel with execution on a default model.
if classificator tells that selected model is too weak, then it cancels request and ask appropriate model.
if i can doit fast and cheap, then i will do it before any kind of ask.
like

`
  do i know this task? <task>${}</task>
` > yes > 

NO is an empty string. Any other string is YES. I use Boolean(value) as evaluator.